From the Google Ecosystem to kinda self-hosted.md, before:

---
created: 2023-02-08
modified: 2023-02-18
---
## The trigger

Have you ever heard, in August 2022, the story of the dad who got banned from his Google account for ‘child porn’ after he sent pics of his toddler’s swollen genitals to his doctor? [^1] [^2]

I have young children. When I read that story, it scared the hell out of me. It could've been me. 

Image loosing all your emails, your pictures of your kids growing up, your documents, etc. 

So what happened? An algorithm automatically flagged the images, and then human moderators deemed them in violation of Google’s rules. The police determined that the fathers had committed no crime, **but the company still deleted their accounts**.

There's also [this reddit thread](https://www.reddit.com/r/google/comments/1aqydp/googles_automated_ban_system_has_been_suspending/) from 10 years ago with several examples of users wrongfully banned from their Google account. Another example [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/degoogle/comments/zuuf84/my_account_was_disabled_for_a_false_violation_of/). 

In December 2022, a mother also had her Google account banned because of a video where her child was dancing naked[^3]. This case was different and she eventually got her account back, but I primarily wanted to share this part of the article:

> Jason Scott, a digital archivist who wrote [a memorably profane](http://ascii.textfiles.com/archives/1717) blog post in 2009 warning people not to trust the cloud, said companies should be legally obligated to give users their data, even when an account was closed for rule violations.
> 
> “Data storage should be like tenant law,” Mr. Scott said. “You shouldn’t be able to hold someone’s data and not give it back.”

I couldn't agree more. Yet, they can. 

Or let's say for whatever reason, you buy something from Google and get yourself into a situation where you do a chargeback with your credit card company. Google will ban you. For them (and for Sony, Nintendo, etc. who do the same), this means the end of the business relationship. While logical, it's hard to phantom how much Google's leverage over your life can be huge if you let yourself be blindly content by their service and end up using all of them for your digital life.

They make awesome product. But the more you use them, the more Google own your data and, eventually, they own … a part of you.

So is it worth taking all your data out of Google big googly eyes? Well, it really depends:
1. Do you care? Should you? How to decide?
2. Is it a hassle?
3. What do you gain? And what do you lose?

## Reasons to stay within the Google ecosystem

It's not all black or all white. You could decide to only have your emails through Google, or only use Google Drive, you could decide to encrypt everything locally and sync on Google Drive. Countless options. But let's say you're the following user:
- Your primary online account is your Google account
- You use Google Chrome
- You have an Android phone
- You use Google Search (e.g., not DuckDuckGo)
- You use Gmail for your primary personal emails
- You use Google Photos as your only photos storage
- You use Google Drive as your primary cloud storage, you also use Docs & Sheets
- You use Google Calendar as your primary calendar

And then you could even use a few more of their products:
- Google One
- Chromebook
- YouTube
- Google Maps
- Google Translate
- Google News
- Google Lens

The ecosystem is the reason to stay. It's very efficient, it's secure, it's polished, it works well. Enable 2FA on your account, pay for Google One to have more storage and call it a day.

## Reasons not to

### You want total control on your privacy

Move everything away from Google, and for any other tech giant for that matter. Encrypt your stuff. Might be too extreme for most. 

### You want total control over your data

Move everything away from Google, and for any other tech giant for that matter. Mirror and backup your stuff. Might be too extreme for most. 

### You want a bit of both

I think that's reasonable.

Let's say you're not comfortable with the idea of Google having access to your whole life of photos but you still like the idea of them being secure on Google servers. 

Export them, create an encrypted volume with VeraCrypt, move them there, delete them from Google, then backup the volume on your Drive and on an external disk. You now have 1) complete privacy and 2) a redundance in storage in case of Drive having a technical issue or you losing the drive (which can only be decrypted by you). Easy to setup (with a bit of learning of course) and easy to use / maintain.

Let's say you're not comfortable with the idea of Google having access to your whole life of emails but still like using Gmail for the day-to-day. Export your emails, move them on another encrypted volume, delete them from Google, then backup the volume on your Drive and on an external disk. 

Not comfortable with having everything on Drive? Do the same! (minus the already-encrypted volumes).

Want even more control over your privacy and data? Keep reading.

## Email: Proton

Google scans your email. In 2017, they said they stopped scanning them to tailor ads [^4]. Yet, in 2020, they started showing shopping ads in Gmail. They scan you email to facilitate "smart features". I'm not concerned with the content of my email, but I'm concerned with my privacy and my right to not have my email analyzed by a giant corporation. Gmail isn't free. You're just paying it with your data instead of your money. That's much more valuable to Google. It's the same for Microsoft with Outlook or Yahoo with Yahoo Mail.

I started using Gmail in 2005. I was using Hotmail before that. Moving to ProtonMail wasn't a small thing for me. However, I haven't missed Gmail at all.

## Photos & Videos: Photoprism

## Documents: Not decided yet

I don't think I'm ready to move away from Google Docs & Sheets. I don't store any sensitive information on Drive. I have a few spreadsheets to keep track of a few things like our fixed monthly expenses, in what device are the rechargeable batteries, etc. Nothing very sensitive. I also use Notion for similar things that I want in a database format. 

I tried NextCloud with Collabora Online Development Edition (CODE) but found it a bit slow and I just don't think it's worth maintaining up to date these software for my use. 

If I were to ditch both, I'd probably simply go offline with Libre Office or even Microsoft Office.

## References & sources

[^1]: Article: [Google bans dad for ‘child porn’ after he sent pics of toddler’s swollen genitals to doctor](https://nypost.com/2022/08/22/google-bans-dad-for-sending-pics-of-toddlers-swollen-genitals-to-doctor/)

[^2]: Article: [Google accused of sparking 10-month probe into innocent father for sharing naked photos of ill toddler](https://www.independent.co.uk/tech/google-surveillance-photo-mark-child-porn-b2149861.html)

[^3]: Article: [Her Child’s Naked Dance Killed Her Google Account. New Appeals Path Restored It](https://www.nytimes.com/2022/12/30/technology/google-appeals-change.html)

[^4]: Article: [Google will no longer read your emails to tailor ads](https://money.cnn.com/2017/06/23/technology/business/google-ad-scanning-email-stop/index.html)

Commit message:

publish: 2023-02-18 14:08:47
Affected files:
From the Google Ecosystem to kinda self-hosted.md

From the Google Ecosystem to kinda self-hosted.md, after:

---
created: 2023-02-08
modified: 2023-02-18
---
## The trigger

Have you ever heard, in August 2022, the story of the dad who got banned from his Google account for ‘child porn’ after he sent pics of his toddler’s swollen genitals to his doctor? [^1] [^2]

I have young children. When I read that story, it scared the hell out of me. It could've been me. 

Image loosing all your emails, your pictures of your kids growing up, your documents, etc. 

So what happened? An algorithm automatically flagged the images, and then human moderators deemed them in violation of Google’s rules. The police determined that the fathers had committed no crime, **but the company still deleted their accounts**.

There's also [this reddit thread](https://www.reddit.com/r/google/comments/1aqydp/googles_automated_ban_system_has_been_suspending/) from 10 years ago with several examples of users wrongfully banned from their Google account. Another example [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/degoogle/comments/zuuf84/my_account_was_disabled_for_a_false_violation_of/). 

In December 2022, a mother also had her Google account banned because of a video where her child was dancing naked[^3]. This case was different and she eventually got her account back, but I primarily wanted to share this part of the article:

> Jason Scott, a digital archivist who wrote [a memorably profane](http://ascii.textfiles.com/archives/1717) blog post in 2009 warning people not to trust the cloud, said companies should be legally obligated to give users their data, even when an account was closed for rule violations.
> 
> “Data storage should be like tenant law,” Mr. Scott said. “You shouldn’t be able to hold someone’s data and not give it back.”

I couldn't agree more. Yet, they can. 

Or let's say for whatever reason, you buy something from Google and get yourself into a situation where you do a chargeback with your credit card company. Google will ban you. For them (and for Sony, Nintendo, etc. who do the same), this means the end of the business relationship. While logical, it's hard to phantom how much Google's leverage over your life can be huge if you let yourself be blindly content by their service and end up using all of them for your digital life.

They make awesome product. But the more you use them, the more Google own your data and, eventually, they own … a part of you.

So is it worth taking all your data out of Google big googly eyes? Well, it really depends:
1. Do you care? Should you? How to decide?
2. Is it a hassle?
3. What do you gain? And what do you lose?

## Reasons to stay within the Google ecosystem

It's not all black or all white. You could decide to only have your emails through Google, or only use Google Drive, you could decide to encrypt everything locally and sync on Google Drive. Countless options. But let's say you're the following user:
- Your primary online account is your Google account
- You use Google Chrome
- You have an Android phone
- You own Google Nest/Home devices
- You use Google Search (e.g., not DuckDuckGo)
- You use Gmail for your primary personal emails
- You use Google Photos as your only photos storage
- You use Google Drive as your primary cloud storage, you also use Docs & Sheets
- You use Google Calendar as your primary calendar

And then you could even use a few more of their products:
- Google One
- Chromebook
- YouTube
- Google Maps
- Google Translate
- Google News
- Google Lens

The ecosystem is the reason to stay. It's very efficient, it's secure, it's polished, it works well. Enable 2FA on your account, pay for Google One to have more storage and call it a day.

## Reasons not to

### You want total control on your privacy

Move everything away from Google, and for any other tech giant for that matter. Encrypt your stuff. Might be too extreme for most. 

### You want total control over your data

Move everything away from Google, and for any other tech giant for that matter. Mirror and backup your stuff. Might be too extreme for most. 

### You want a bit of both

I think that's reasonable.

Let's say you're not comfortable with the idea of Google having access to your whole life of photos but you still like the idea of them being secure on Google servers. 

Export them, create an encrypted volume with VeraCrypt, move them there, delete them from Google, then backup the volume on your Drive and on an external disk. You now have 1) complete privacy and 2) a redundance in storage in case of Drive having a technical issue or you losing the drive (which can only be decrypted by you). Easy to setup (with a bit of learning of course) and easy to use / maintain.

Let's say you're not comfortable with the idea of Google having access to your whole life of emails but still like using Gmail for the day-to-day. Export your emails, move them on another encrypted volume, delete them from Google, then backup the volume on your Drive and on an external disk. 

Not comfortable with having everything on Drive? Do the same! (minus the already-encrypted volumes).

Not comfortable having [all your activities](https://myactivity.google.) recorded? I'm talking about all your searches on Google, every result you click on, every site you visit, every notification you receive, every search on Maps, on YouTube, every voice command you give (with the recording), every news article you open, any game you play, any translation you type, any shopping you do, any flight ticket you search for. Not comfortable having [your every move tracked](https://timeline.google.com/maps/timeline)? **Disable it!**

Want even more control over your privacy and data? Keep reading.

## Email: Proton

Google scans your email. In 2017, they said they stopped scanning them to tailor ads [^4]. Yet, in 2020, they started showing shopping ads in Gmail. They scan you email to facilitate "smart features". I'm not concerned with the content of my email, but I'm concerned with my privacy and my right to not have my email analyzed by a giant corporation. Gmail isn't free. You're just paying it with your data instead of your money. That's much more valuable to Google. It's the same for Microsoft with Outlook or Yahoo with Yahoo Mail.

I started using Gmail in 2005. I was using Hotmail before that. Moving to ProtonMail wasn't a small thing for me. However, I haven't missed Gmail at all.

## Photos & Videos: Photoprism

## Documents: Not decided yet

I don't think I'm ready to move away from Google Docs & Sheets. I don't store any sensitive information on Drive. I have a few spreadsheets to keep track of a few things like our fixed monthly expenses, in what device are the rechargeable batteries, etc. Nothing very sensitive. I also use Notion for similar things that I want in a database format. 

I tried NextCloud with Collabora Online Development Edition (CODE) but found it a bit slow and I just don't think it's worth maintaining up to date these software for my use. 

If I were to ditch both, I'd probably simply go offline with Libre Office or even Microsoft Office.

## References & sources

[^1]: Article: [Google bans dad for ‘child porn’ after he sent pics of toddler’s swollen genitals to doctor](https://nypost.com/2022/08/22/google-bans-dad-for-sending-pics-of-toddlers-swollen-genitals-to-doctor/)

[^2]: Article: [Google accused of sparking 10-month probe into innocent father for sharing naked photos of ill toddler](https://www.independent.co.uk/tech/google-surveillance-photo-mark-child-porn-b2149861.html)

[^3]: Article: [Her Child’s Naked Dance Killed Her Google Account. New Appeals Path Restored It](https://www.nytimes.com/2022/12/30/technology/google-appeals-change.html)

[^4]: Article: [Google will no longer read your emails to tailor ads](https://money.cnn.com/2017/06/23/technology/business/google-ad-scanning-email-stop/index.html)
