I listed pretty much all the software I host on my home lab, but there are some of them that I'd rather take a few more notes about and share a bit more of my experience with them.

### pfSense
I started using pfSense a few years ago when I was looking into a good firewall/router solution to use with custom hardware. I tried OPNsene but didn't find any reason to switch. pfSense does everything I need (and much, much more than I could ever need) and has a wide variety of packages. 

I only use one though: WireGuard. I was previously using OpenVPN but prefers WireGuard.

### Unifi Controller
I don't have much to say here, except that I really like this software. It's easy to use and every upgrade makes it better. Ubiquiti really makes great hardware **and** software. I have two Wi-Fi networks, one for us and one isolated for our guests. I really need to look into having a third for 2.4Ghz smart devices to isolate them from the rest of our network. 

### AdGuard
A must-have, either self-hosted or using their public DNS. 

### Photoprism
I've been contemplating the idea of dropping Google Photos for years now. I used to auto-backup to my NAS all my photos and videos when they were still accessible through Drive, until Google removed that feature on July 2019 in a classic Google move. I didn't bother finding an alternative at that time, but it's been on my mind ever since.

The thing is: Google Photos is darn good. The UI is great, it's easy to share pictures, the partner sharing is extremely useful, the automatic memories/creations are fun. Oh, and its AI recognition is good. Like, scary good. 

Photoprism's face recognition is ages away in comparison. But the reason for that is so obvious that it gave me goosebump when I read it from [their doc](https://docs.photoprism.app/user-guide/organize/people/#asian-faces-and-children):

>It is a known issue that children [...] faces cannot be recognized reliably. 
>
>**The absence of children in the training data comes from the fact that parents do not usually share such images under a public license (and may not have the right to do so).**

How come then that Google Photos' AI is so good? Your guess is as good as mine, and mine would be that they've been using all their users' pictures to train their AI for years. I'm sure they'd say they never did that and never would. And I'm sure I wouldn't believe them.

Moving away from Google Photos is part of a bigger plan to [move away from using Google](From%20the%20Google%20Ecosystem%20to%20kinda%20self-hosted.md) in general.

So I downloaded/exported all my photos from Google using their export tool named [Google Takeout](https://takeout.google.com/), saved them on my QNAP and pointed Photoprism to that folder (readonly for now), then set up a backup job to Wasabi. The first backup took something like a week or two to complete 😬.

My plan was to then remove from Google Photos all my photos and videos taken prior 2023, and re-do the process every year in December. That way I'd still enjoy the easiness of using Google Photos, without keeping almost all my lifetime's memories on that platform.

I haven't done that yet. I was waiting for my first backup to complete before deleting all my data from Google Photos, but then as it took longer than I expected, I kinda moved on to other projects. I'll eventually get back to it, but I also wasn't fully satisfied with Photoprism after playing around a bit with it.

So more to come!

Now I'm diverging from the main subject and hopefully this part will become its own page at some point but I'll note it here for now: I was shocked, and not in a good way, at the amount of similar shots I have.

"Back in the days", we'd have 21 shots and we'd have to pay to get them printed, so they'd better be good and worth it, right? Today, I just tap tap tap tap that virtual shutter button to make sure I don't miss a good shot. I then look at the photos to see if one (or more) is good and move on. I never actually take the time to delete shots that aren't good and won't be used. Or just to filter down the best shot and remove the other ones. They'll eventually just be in the way. And they are. It's like a debt I keep growing. And it was shocking to me to see how many pictures it ended up being after years of not cleaning up. I'm actually so lazy that I preferred to pay for Google One and get more storage than clean up my mess.

I can do better. Now I'm seriously diverging but it also joined another related part of my brain: over consuming without realizing it. Just a quick example as a reminder to myself to write deeper into this subject: have you ever been super excited to discover a new band through a CD when you were young? Or rented a VHS or DVD after really really wishing to see that movie? Or try a new video game at a friend's you didn't know existed? If you can relate to one of these experiences, then ask yourself this question: are you still in such awe when Spotify gives you your newly weekly discovery playlist? When you're on the Steam Store lost searching for a new game amongst hundred of thousands of them? Taking countless pictures, being able to listen to an endless source of music. It just feels... too easy to take a minute and appreciate what is currently there, in the present. The current song. That one picture. That one thing you were super excited about when you bought it and that's now in a box 'till death take you apart.

Ahhh I did it again.

### Web Development & Caddy: 
- Caddy
	- Extensions installed

- minio
- PGAdmin
- redis
- MariaDB
- CodeServer
- pm2
- nginx
- php
- Mailhog

### Blue iris
#### Security first
Mandatory reads:
- [Optimizing Blue Iris's CPU Usage (ipcamtalk)](https://ipcamtalk.com/wiki/optimizing-blue-iris-s-cpu-usage/)
	- Follow everything on that page, up to (and including) Video scaling. The rest (Text and Graphic Overlays, Encoder Preset, Limit decoding unless required, Windows Power Options, Antivirus / Antimalware exception, Disk Defragmenter) hasn't been useful IMO.

If you don't have much experience with network security, I'd highly recommend running your camera in a closed system. For example, you could have a POE switch which the PC running Blue Iris and all the cameras are connected to. No Internet. You'd only be able to watch the live feed and recordings from the PC. Unless you get get your network secure, this is the way. If you're willing to spend a few hours reading on how to secure your network, here's a good start from ipcamtalk: [How to Secure Your Network (Don't Get Hacked!)](https://ipcamtalk.com/wiki/how-to-secure-your-network-don-t-get-hacked/).

Here's a short version:
- [Disable uPnP](https://lifehacker.com/disable-upnp-on-your-wireless-router-already-1844012366) on your router right now.
- Disable any Port Forwarding on your router.
- Use [Tailscale](https://tailscale.com/). It lets you easily access devices on your network, and work securely from anywhere in the world. The free plan should be enough. You'll install Tailscale on the Windows machine running Blue Iris and on the clients wanting to access [UI3](https://ipcamtalk.com/threads/blue-iris-ui3.23528/).
	- Make sure to take a look at their not-so-marketed Community on GitHub plan which can get you up to 25 users, 5 devices per user, and 2 admins for free.

If you use UI3 a lot (eg: you leave it run most of the day on a monitor), I'd highly recommend lowering the FPS of the groups stream. Groups are displayed above the live view and the default value is "All camera". You can create groups of cameras and new layouts. Next to the "All cameras" dropdown, you'll see a cog ⚙️. Click on it. You'll then see a "Default max FPS" box. I set it to 5 and immediately noticed a significant drop in CPU usage.

#### Our setup
We have a cameras system of 100MP/s. 

The Clips and archiving is configured as following:
- New: Secondary HDD, 200GB, 7 days, then moved to storage
- Stored: Secondary HDD, 1TB, 120 days, then deleted
- Alerts: Secondary HDD, 200GB, 30 days, then deleted

### WIP
- Vaultwarden
- [[Home Assistant - How I use it and for what|Home Assistant]]
- Blue Iris